# CLI Commands Using `cfa-cloudops`

The `cfa-cloudops` package provides a set of command-line interface (CLI) commands for managing Cloud resources and workflows. These commands allow users to interact with the Cloud from the terminal, providing flexibility to any programming language rather than restricting users to python. It is built on top of the `cfa.cloudops.CloudClient` class for its authentication and methods.

## Getting Started

The CLI commands are available as long as the `cfa-cloudops` package is installed in your development environment. This can be done by running the following in your terminal:

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/CDCgov/cfa-cloudops.git
```

## Available Commands

The following commands are available via the command line:

- create_pool
- create_job
- add_task
- create_blob_container
- upload_file
- upload_folder
- monitor_job
- check_job_status
- delete_job
- package_and_upload_dockerfile
- upload_docker_image
- download_file
- download_folder
- delete_pool
- list_blob_files
- delete_blob_file
- delete_blob_folder
- download_job_stats
- download_after_job
- add_tasks_from_yaml
- generate_sample_env

## Use

Because the CLI commands are built using the `CloudClient` class, all commands will take in `--dotenv_path`, `--use_sp`, and `--use_federated` as optional arguments. Other arguments change depending on the command. These arguments can be described by including a `-h` flag after the desired command, like below.

```bash
create_pool -h
```

You may need a .env file depending on what commands you hope to run. A sample .env file can be generated by running the following in your terminal. This creates a file you can edit and rename for your use.

```bash
generate_sample_env
```

## Real Life Use Case

Suppose we want to create a job, run a task, then delete the job, all through the command line. This can be done by running the three following commands in the terminal.

```bash
create_job -n example-job --pool_name example-pool --exist_ok

add_task --job_name example-job -c "python3 run_dummy_task.py"

delete_job -n example-job
```
